Getting started with quasar framework (#1808)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: articles/getting-started-with-quasar-framework/index.md

Navigate to the `src` folder, open App.vue you'll a div with and id of q-app
```html
<div id="q-app">
```
This is the where the quasar app is injected into the project using the id `q-app`.

Navigate to the `src` folder and into `layouts` folder and open MainLayout.vue file.

Here we'll rename the app title to "Hello World App", if everything is okay you'll see the name change reflected on the toolbar at the top of the app.
The toolbar title tag looks like this below
```html
   <q-toolbar-title> Hello World App </q-toolbar-title>
```
You can delete the next div after the q-toolbar-title to remove the quasar version.
```html
 <div>Quasar v{{ $q.version }}</div>
```  
The  MainLayout.vue file also contains navigation links for the app, this is where you'll put navigation links to your app while it grows bigger.

For now, the links component which is the Essential link.vue file in the `components` folder is imported into the MainLayout.vue file. Data in linksData array is then looped through in the imported EssentialLink component and displayed to the left drawer of the app.

Don't worry if you don't understand, you'll get a hang of it with more practice.

> Now navigate to the `src` folder, then  `pages` folder and open the Index.vue file,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now navigate to the `src/pages` folder and open Index.vue.
```

> You can delete the whole image tag, looks like this below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can delete the whole image tag that looks like this.
```

```html

>     <img alt="Quasar logo" src="~assets/quasar-logo-full.svg">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img alt="Quasar logo" src="~assets/quasar-logo-full.svg">
```

```
This will delete the image at its name quasar from the center of the app. Leaving the app ready for other components

### Familiarize with the structure of the components

Here we're going to build a component. Just like Vuejs, Quasar uses single file components (SFC) structure. This has 3 parts; the HTML, SCRIPT(JS) and STYLE(CSS). If you have the know-how of building Vuejs apps this should be a breeze.

Create a file named Country.vue in the `components` folder.
It has the SFC structure like vue. Add the following code to the HTML part of the code.
```html
<template>
  <div>
    {{ name }}
  </div>
</template>
```

> We are intend to display name of a countryin the root page. In the script add the following code,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are intending to display the name of a country in the root page. In the script, add the following code:
```

```javascript
    export default {
      name: "Country",
      data () {
          return {
            name: 'Kenya'
          }
      }
    }
```
The style tag should remain as it is. Now in the index.vue file in the `pages` folder import the County component. The script tag should be like below.
```javascript
import Country from "../components/Country";
export default {
  name: 'PageIndex',
  components: {Country}
}
```
The html part should look like below
```html
<template>
  <q-page class="flex justify-start">
        <div>
          <Country />
        </div>
  </q-page>
</template>
```
The name of the country, `Kenya`, appears at the top left of the app. This is how simple it is to create a component. It can also be reused in other components.

### Pros of Choosing Quasar

The following are some of the pros of choosing quasar framework

> 1. Support for multiple platforms

Reviewer: Please write these as h4 headings.
```suggestion
#### 1. Support for multiple platforms
```

layout: engineering-education
status: 
published: 
url: /engineering-education/getting-started-with-quasar-framework/
title: Getting Started with Quasar Framework
description: In this article, we will look at get started with quasar framework, its components structure, its pros and finally cons.
author: espira-marvin
date: 
topics: []
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
images:

  - url: /engineering-education/getting-started-with-quasar-framework/hero.jpg
    alt: Getting Started with Quasar
---

### Introduction

Quasar Framework is a Vue.js based framework used to develop cross-platform applications using one codebase saving development costs. Quasar offers a state of art user Interface and support builds for:
  - single-page applications 
  - progressive web applications
  - server-side rendering
  - mobile apps (Ios and android) using cordova or capacitor 
  - multi-platform desktop apps using electron 
  - browser extensions. 
  
The overhead of using quasar is minimal as it implements the best practices in web development out-of-the-box, taking into account performance and responsiveness in mind. It also has components for almost every web development need.

> 

Reviewer: Outline some of the best practices that you are referring to here.

### Prerequisites

1. Knowledge of Vue js
2. Quasar CLI
3. Node.js 10.x or newer excluding 13 and 15

> 4. Npm 5.10 or newer / yarn 1.2 or newer

Reviewer: Please explain why you excempt Node.js 13 and 15.

> 
> 1. Knowledge of Vue js
> 2. Quasar CLI
> 3. Node.js 10.x or newer excluding 13 and 15
> 4. Npm 5.10 or newer / yarn 1.2 or newer
> 

Reviewer: In the prerequisites section, you outline the things the reader needs prior to going through your tutorial. The reader does not need Quasar CLI at this point. This is why you are guiding the installation deeper in your tutorial.
```suggestion
To follow along with this tutorial, you need:
1. Some knowledge of Vue js
2. Node.js 10.x or newer excluding 13 and 15.
3. Npm 5.10 or newer / yarn 1.2 or newer.

```

There are three ways we can install quasar as listed below. In this tutorial, we're going to use the third method, `using quasar CLI` which comes with all quasar features out-of-the-box. You can skip the first two and try them at a later time.

1. Embedding into an existing project through CDN as shown below.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head></head>
  <body>
    <!-- Add  at the end of your body tag -->  
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vue@^2.0.0/dist/vue.min.js"></script>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/quasar@1.15.6/dist/quasar.umd.min.js"></script>
    
    <script>
      new Vue({
        el: '#q-app',
        data: function () {
          return {}
        },
        methods: {},
      })
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
In your body tag, you should use Quasar components in a div with and id `q-app` as shown below:
```html
 <div id="q-app"> ... </div>
 ```
Do not use self-closing tags like `<q-list />` instead, use `<q-list></q-list>`

Note this is not the best practice, since you will have to make sure to match all quasar related tags to the same version you have installed. In the script, we have used version `@1.15.6`.

> 

Reviewer: Please use consistent capitalization of words like 'Quasar', etc. Review your document correcting this.

```bash
❯ Sass with SCSS syntax (recommended) 
  Sass with SCSS syntax (recommended)
  Sass with indented syntax (recommended)
  Stylus (deprecated)
  None (the others will still be available)
```
Select Auto-import-in-use Quasar Components and hit enter
```bash
? Pick a Quasar components & directives import strategy
❯ * Auto-import in-use Quasar components & directives
    - also treeshakes Quasar; minimum bundle size
  * Import everything from Quasar
    - not treeshaking Quasar; biggest bundle size    
```
Then press the spacebar to unselect the ESLint feature, we won't be needing it here. Hit enter.
```bash
❯ (*) ESLint (recommended)
```
Finally using arrow keys select yarn, this is what we will use during development, you can use npm if you like.
```bash
❯ Yes, use Yarn (recommended)
```

Navigate to the created `hello-world-app` and serve the app by running the commands:
```bash
$ cd hello-world-app
$ quasar dev
```
After serving the app, it  opens the URL http://localhost:8080/#/ in your browser to view the app.
You'll see quasar logo and the name quasar in the center of the page.

Open the created `hello-world-app` folder in your editor of choice.

> Navigate to the `src` folder, open App.vue you'll see a div with and id of q-app

Reviewer: Write inline file and folder names and code excerpts as inline code blocks. eg . `App.vue`. Revise your document fixing similar issues.

```html
<div id="q-app">
```
This is the where the quasar app is injected into the project using the id `q-app`.

Navigate to the `src/layouts` folder and open `MainLayout.vue` file.

Here we'll rename the app title to "Hello World App", if everything is okay you'll see the name change reflected on the toolbar at the top of the app.
The toolbar title tag looks like this below
```html
<q-toolbar-title> Hello World App </q-toolbar-title>
```
You can delete the next div after the q-toolbar-title to remove the quasar version.
```html
<div>Quasar v{{ $q.version }}</div>
```  
The  MainLayout.vue file also contains navigation links for the app, this is where you'll put navigation links to your app while it grows bigger.

For now, the links component which is the Essential link.vue file in the `components` folder is imported into the MainLayout.vue file. Data in linksData array is then looped through in the imported EssentialLink component and displayed to the left drawer of the app.

Don't worry if you don't understand, you'll get a hang of it with more practice.

> Now navigate to the `src/pages` folder and open Index.vue.
> You can delete the whole image tag that looks like this.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now navigate to the `src/pages` folder and open `Index.vue`. You can delete the whole image tag that looks like this.

```

```html
<img alt="Quasar logo" src="~assets/quasar-logo-full.svg">
```
This will delete the image and its name quasar from the center of the app. Leaving the app ready for other components

### Familiarize with the structure of the components

> Here we're going to build a component. Just like Vuejs, Quasar uses single file components (SFC) structure. This has 3 parts; the HTML, SCRIPT(JS) and STYLE(CSS). If you have the know-how of building Vuejs apps this should be a breeze.
> 

Reviewer: Rewrite the sentence "This has 3 parts; the HTML, SCRIPT(JS) and STYLE(CSS)" using html tags. eg `<template>` (HTML)  to explain SFC. Don't forget to say that this tags are in a single file.
```suggestion
Here, we are going to build a component. Just like Vue.js, Quasar uses a single file components (SFC) structure. This has 3 parts; the HTML, SCRIPT(JS) and STYLE(CSS). If you have the knowledge of building Vue.js apps this should be a breeze.

```
Make the last sentence more formal.
